who is this who comes from Edom with
dyed garments from Basra this one who is
glorious in his apparel traveling in the
greatness of his strength I who speak in
righteousness mighty to save
why is your apparel red and your
garments like one who treads in the
winepress I have trodden the winepress
alone and from the peoples no one was
with me for I have trodden them in my
anger and trampled them in my fury their
blood is sprinkled upon my garments and
I have stained all my robes for the day
of vengeance is in my heart and the year
of my redeemed has come I looked but
there was no one to help and I wondered
that there was no one to uphold
therefore my own arm brought salvation
for me and my own fury it sustained me I
have trodden down the people's in my
anger made them drunk in my fury and
brought down their strength to the earth
I will mention the loving kindness of
the Lord and the praises of the Lord
according to all that the Lord has
bestowed on us and the great goodness
toward the house of Israel which he has
bestowed on them according to his
mercies according to the multitude of
his loving-kindness for he said surely
they are my people children who will not
lie so he became their Savior in all
their affliction he was afflicted and
the angel of his presence saved them in
his love and in his pity he redeemed
them and he bore them and carried them
all the days of old but they rebelled
and grieved his holy spirit so he turned
himself against them as an enemy and he
fought against them then he remembered
the days of old Moses and his people say
where is he who brought them up out of
the sea with the shepherd of his flock
where is he who put his holy spirit
within them who led them by the right
hand of Moses with his glorious arm
dividing the water before them to make
for himself an everlasting name who led
them through the deep as a horse in the
wilderness that they might not stumble
as a beast goes down into the valley and
the Spirit of the Lord causes him to
rest so you led your people to make
yourself a glorious name look down from
heaven and see from your habitation holy
and glorious where are your zeal and
your strength the yearning of your heart
and your mercies toward me are they
restrained doubtless you are our Father
though Abraham was ignorant of us and
Israel does not acknowledge us you O
Lord are our Father our Redeemer from
everlasting is your name o Lord why have
you made us stray from your ways and
hardened our heart from your fear return
for your servants sake the tribes of
your inheritance your holy people have
possessed it but a little while our
adversaries have trodden down your
sanctuary we have become like those of
old over whom you never ruled those who
were never called by your name
you